---
# .!.!.replace-token-for-autogenerated-by-docs-warning.!.!.
# .!.!.replace-token-for-autogenerated-by-docs-source.!.!.
---
# Filtering Mermaid diagram content
These examples shows how you can control what C# types that will be included in your Mermaid diagrams.
Here we will only focus on the Class diagrams, but the filtering capabilities are the same for ER diagrams, so you can use the same filters for those diagrams.

In the following examples we exclude most of the diagram content details, to make it easier to follow the examples.
[The Mermaid Class diagram details examples](./mermaid-class-diagram-details.md) digs into more details on how to control the content details in your Mermaid Class diagrams and
[the Mermaid ER diagram details examples](./mermaid-er-diagram-details.md) does the same for Mermaid Er diagrams.

All these examples uses `DryGen.MermaidFromCSharp.dll` (the assembly for generating Mermaid diagram from C# code using reflection ) as `--input-file`.
They also uses the same `--output-file` options, to give you an idea of how to control the generated representation by using the highlighted options.

The `--direction` option used in the examples are choosen by trial and error.

## Example 1: No filtering

Most C# codebases will soon contain a lot of types, so a class diagram without any filters can be far to detailed to be of any practical use.

.!.!.replace-token-for-mermaid-diagram-filter-example-no-filtering-commandline.!.!.

.!.!.replace-token-for-mermaid-diagram-filter-example-no-filtering.!.!.

## Example 2: Filtering with `--tree-shaking-roots`

Use `--tree-shaking-roots` if you want a diagram with just the C# types with a relationship with one or more type(s).
 
In this example we show all the dry-gen types related to the interface `ITypeFilter`.

>[!NOTE]
>This diagram contains more or less all the C# types implementing the filtering capabilities we look at in these examples.

.!.!.replace-token-for-mermaid-diagram-filter-example-tree-shaking-roots-commandline.!.!.

.!.!.replace-token-for-mermaid-diagram-filter-example-tree-shaking-roots.!.!.

## Example 3: Filtering with `--include-namespaces`

Use `--include-namespaces` if you want a diagram with all C# types in one or more of your namespaces.

In this example we show all the dry-gen types in the namespace `DryGen.MermaidFromCSharp.ClassDiagram`.

>[!NOTE]
>This diagram contains more or less all the C# types implementing the capabilities to generate Mermaid Class diagrams.

.!.!.replace-token-for-mermaid-diagram-filter-example-include-namespaces-commandline.!.!.

.!.!.replace-token-for-mermaid-diagram-filter-example-include-namespaces.!.!.

## Example 4: Filtering with `--include-typenames`

Use `--include-typenames` if you want a diagram with all C# types where the type name matches one or more regex(es).

In this example we show all the dry-gen types where the type name matches the regex `.*ClassDiagram.*`.

>[!NOTE]
>This diagram contains more or less the same C# types as in the previous example. That is just a coincidence, and happens since all the types for generating Mermaid class diagrams have the same naming convention **and** are grouped in the same name space.

.!.!.replace-token-for-mermaid-diagram-filter-example-include-typenames-commandline.!.!.

.!.!.replace-token-for-mermaid-diagram-filter-example-include-typenames.!.!.

## Example 5: Filtering with `--exclude-typenames`

Use `--exclude-typenames` if you want a diagram with all C# types except those where the type name matches one or more regex(es).

In this example we show all the dry-gen types where the type name does not match the regex `.*ClassDiagram.*`.

>[!NOTE]
>This diagram contains most of the dry-gen C# types except those in the previous examples two and four.

.!.!.replace-token-for-mermaid-diagram-filter-example-exclude-typenames-commandline.!.!.

.!.!.replace-token-for-mermaid-diagram-filter-example-exclude-typenames.!.!.